# AI Engineer Internship Task at PathOr

## Project Overview

This project involves designing and implementing a conversational AI agent that automates the process of generating a daily sales report from a spreadsheet and emailing it to the management team. The agent handles tasks such as data extraction, report generation in PDF format, email automation, and interacts with users in a natural language manner.

## Project Structure

```
Rahul_Barodia_Assignment_Pathor/
├── data/
│   └── sales_data.xlsx
├── reports/
│   └── daily_sales_report.pdf
├── scripts/
│   ├── extract_data.py
│   ├── generate_report.py
│   ├── email_automate.py
│   ├── conversational_agent.py
│   └── __init__.py
├── .env
└── main.py
└── app.py
```


## Implementation Details

### Scripts:

1. **extract_data.py**: Extracts sales data from the provided Excel file.
   
2. **generate_report.py**: Generates a daily sales report in PDF format based on extracted data. Includes visualizations of sales trends and product sales distribution.
   
3. **email_automate.py**: Automates the process of emailing the generated PDF report to the management team. Provides options for immediate sending or scheduling.

4. **conversational_agent.py**: Implements the conversational AI agent using natural language processing. Interacts with users to confirm report generation, handle issues, and schedule or send the report via email.

### .env File:

Contains environment variables for email configuration, including `EMAIL` and `PASSWORD`.

## Dependencies

Install the required dependencies using 
```bash
pip install pandas fpdf matplotlib reportlab smtplib schedule streamlit python-dotenv
```

## Instructions

1. Clone the repository:

``` bash
git clone <repository_url>
cd Rahul_Barodia_Assignment_Pathor
```

2. Set up environment variables:
- Create a `.env` file in the scripts directory.
- Add your Gmail `EMAIL` and `PASSWORD` for email automation.
- Format :
```bash
EMAIL = "Your email id"
PASSWORD = "Password"
```
Note: The password is not your Gmail password. It is the app password generated by going to Google Account settings under Security and selecting App passwords.

3. Run the main script:
```bash
python main.py
```

Follow the prompts to interact with the conversational agent and generate/send the daily sales report.


4. Alternatively if you want to use a GUI then run the Streamlit app:
```bash
streamlit run app.py
```

## Demo Video

A demo video showcasing the functionality of the tool is available in my google drive.
<a href="https://drive.google.com/file/d/1StC1JOJQ6xiGOoxfKNB5leGIlMwbRlVt/view?usp=sharing">Link</a>









